Another verb that contracts in this way, losing its last e, like poder, becoming podria, is aber, to have.
So
I would have, how would it be?
You're gonna add the i on a pair and it's gonna lose its e like poder did.
So how would it sound
Abriya.
So Abriya means I would have, you would have, Fumili, he would have, she would have, it would have.
Which means now you can make sentences like I would have gone.
I would have eaten something but etc.
So let's practice with this.
How would you say I would have gone?
What's to go first?
Ear.
How would you make gone from to go?
What is the rule to get gone from to go?
The version
that we need after aber after any version of aber it doesn't matter if it's emo so abriyah it's the version of the verb that comes after aber how do we get that version
Ido.
Yes.
Okay.
I take away ear, the ending, it's the whole verb.
Whatever, it doesn't matter.
I'm taking away the ending, ear, and I'm putting either.
Good.
I would have gone
Abria ido.
Good.
Abriya ido.
We would have eaten.
How would that be?
Good.
Abriamos comido.
We could even make a sentence now like we would have been able to go.
we would have been able to go.
And as long as you tackle each individual part individually, you will stay in control and you will be able to make these apparently really complicated sentences
Which are actually quite simple because they take the same structure in English and Spanish.
So we would have, how would that be?
We would have
Good.
Being able.
So what's to be able?
Related to power?
Poder?
Ah
Poder is to be able.
How would you make that being able?
Or just the version after Aber?
What does it do when it comes after Aber?
Podido.
To go.
Good.
Ariamos podido ir.
We would have been able to go.
Good.
You could say they would have been able to eat, so divide it up block by block and it's very simple.
They would have.
Good
Abrian podido comer.
So if you were to say something like they would have come to it, then come is a verb of motion.
So how would you say they would have come to it?
Habrian venido a comer.
Habrien venido a comer because we have venir a verb of motion connecting to another two form.
Good.
With this very useful structure of Abderiah, you could also say something like I would have liked it.
You just need to think
in this Spanglish in this in-between language in the literal translation of how we want to say it in English and then converted.
So
I would have liked it is it would have pleased me.
It would have pleased me.
So to not lose our control and to stay in control of this process, where is the first place we want our thoughts to go?
It would have.
Yeah, it would have.
Good.
So what is it would have?
Apriya.
Good.
Pleased.
So it's kustar after aber.
So maybe it's better to think of it in this way.
I'm finding the version of the verb after aber instead of actually trying to find the translation of the word because the versions after have
are so different in English.
We have eaten, gone, walked.
So if we are looking for walked, gone or eaten, and we forget that it's just the version of Trabel, we might be looking for a very long time.
So the version after Abel, we have Ado or Ido, no?
Custado.
Good.
So now we can make the sentence.
It would have pleased me.
I would have liked it.
Me habría gustado.
Good.
So I would have liked it.
How would you say we would have liked it?
So it would have pleased us.
So it's nos Abrria Gustado.
Very good.
Nos Abria Gustado
And maybe you might want to say we would have liked them.
First give me the the Spanglish, the literal translation in English.
So we want to say we would have liked them.
What is the literal translation of how we put it into Spanish?
They would have pleased us.
Perfect.
Well done.
They would have pleased us.
So now you're you have all you need to make that sentence.
Abrion nos abrian custado.
Good, nos abrian custado.
They would have pleased us
We would have liked them.
So we just saw some complicated structures with this wood, which is especially useful because we can make could and we can make wood have
We can also make should with this word.
What was to owe or must, which was related to debt in English?
The ber.
Now if you say would o this means should.
How would you say then I should, he should, it should, she should, you fummel should.
Deberia?
Yes.
Deberia.
Good.
How would you say you should come to my house?
You should come to my house informal.
You should come to my house to eat.
Informally still.
Good.
Both are perfectly fine.
Well done.
How would you say we should?
Deperiamos.
Good.
How would you say we should speak?
Here speak is to speak.
The confusion might come that in English, after can, after should, after must, we don't say to
I must eat, not I must to eat.
I can eat, not uh I can to eat.
In Spanish, you're just using the two form afterwards
So we should speak.
We should speak.
Good.
Deberiamos hablar.
We should speak about it.
And we said we don't need about
Good.
We should speak about it.
We should speak it.
What if you wanted to say we should speak to him?
Deberíamos hablarle.
Good.
This could actually be to him or to her or to you, Fumul, no?
Deberíamos hablarle.
What if you wanted to say we should speak to them or we should speak to you guys?
Good.
Deberíamos hablarles
How would you say we should speak with him?
Good, and with her
Con ella.
Altogether.
Good.
So choosing these structures
you get around the ambiguity of deberíamos hablarle, which could mean him or her or you fumel.
If we use con, we see very clearly who we mean.
Deberíamos hablar con él.
deberíamos hablar con ella.
To give is dar.
Dar to give.
How do you say I would give?
Daria.
They would give
Daryan.
Good.
They would give me or to me.
Metarian.
Good.
They would give me it.
Melotarian.
Good.